Long tasks create a second problem.
Even well-curated context eventually fills as the Agent takes actions, observes results, fixes errors, and accumulates decisions.
A task that lasts hours may exceed the usable window several times.
Compaction is the first lever.
Summarize the conversation or trace, start a fresh window, and carry forward the decisions, unresolved bugs, constraints, evidence, and next actions needed for continuity.
Raw tool output that has already served its purpose can usually disappear.
Compaction has a risk: a subtle detail that looks unimportant now may become critical later.
Anthropic recommends tuning for high recall first, then improving precision.
Losing a decisive constraint is more expensive than carrying a little extra context.
Structured notes provide another layer.
The Agent writes progress, milestones, discoveries, and open questions outside the window, then reloads the relevant note later.
This makes working state durable without keeping the entire conversation active.
Specialized agents can isolate deep exploration.
A lead Agent keeps the high-level plan while focused agents investigate separate questions with clean contexts and return condensed findings.
This pays off when parallel research value exceeds coordination cost.
Choose by task shape.
Use compaction for conversational continuity, notes for iterative work with clear milestones, and specialized agents for independent deep investigations.
Whichever method you choose, the handoff must preserve outcome, decisions, evidence, unknowns, and next action.
First, compact long traces into high-recall continuity summaries.
Second, keep durable working state in structured external notes.
Third, use specialized agents only when focused exploration justifies coordination.